1. Amusing: These emotions were felt during the more upbeat, high-pitched songs like "Yakety Sax," typically heard during cartoon chase scenes.

2. Annoying: Songs that evoked this emotion often had unstructured and dissonant sounds, causing the listener to be uncomfortable and annoyed.

3. Anxious, tense: The music featured in this category was very suspenseful and jerky, with the sudden jumps in pace and pitch creating anxiety in listeners. 

4. Beautiful: Lots of classical music was included in this group, like Pachelbel's Canon and Beethoven's "Fur Elise." 

5. Calm, relaxing, serene: These emotions were felt from songs you would typically hear in a spa or a yoga class, with very gentle noises to relax the listener.

6. Dreamy: Songs in this category are reminiscent of lullabies, which explains why listeners felt dreamy after hearing the music samples.

7. Energizing, pump up: This category consisted of your typical dancey songs, with lots of guitar riffs. "Eye of the Tiger" by Survivor was a prominent song in the category.

8. Erotic, desirous: Songs like Al Green's "Let's Stay Together" evoked these feelings, along with more slow-paced, brass-heavy instrumentals.

9. Indignant, defiant: This was one of the smaller categories out of the data but mostly consisted of heavy metal and rock songs.

10. Joyful, cheerful: "Somewhere Over the Rainbow" was a great example for this category, along with Jason Mraz's "I'm Yours."

11. Sad, depressing: Songs like Adele's "Hello" were featured in this category, with many of the music samples containing slow, deep piano sounds.

12. Scary, fearful: This emotion was evoked in listeners through songs that were unusually low-pitched with slow tempos. 

13. Triumphant, heroic: This category contained songs like "The Star Spangled Banner," with more grand orchestral accompaniments.

MUSIC MAY HELP YOU BETTER DEAL WITH PROBLEMS
Most likely, you have noticed this from your own experience – music gives strength to cope with problems and relieve the soul without harming your mental state. This phenomenon evoked the interest of the researcher and psychologist Stefan Koelsch who have revealed that sad music evokes a sense of empathy in a person.

That is, a person begins to empathize with the emotions of the lyrics, and at this time the human brain regulates our emotional background. This allows for getting rid of negative emotions and experiences, but without harm to the mental health of a person.

MUSIC BOOSTS DOPAMINE PRODUCTION
Dopamine is responsible for a person’s good mood and usually occurs as a result of doing what you love, playing sports, or achieving goals, and music can influence the production of this hormone as well.

There is a study confirming that listening to music that you like activates the production of this hormone in the brain. Therefore, regular listening to music can cheer you up in a short time, and playing sports with music increases your mood doubly.